As we reviewed in lesson one,
Hooks provide a reusable interface to external systems and databases.
Many companies will have in-house systems or datastores,
that need to be accessed during execution of data pipelines.
In these cases, you should consider creating a custom hook.
For example, a [inaudible] share pipelines would
eventually need to integrate with analytics information from our email provider.
Here, let's pretend that our email provider is MailChimp.
Since we can query our accounts email data over an HTTP API,
we might build a custom hook that interfaces with our email provider.
This would allow us to avoid rewriting the same API access code in many different places.
We could build similar hooks to interface with other common analytics tools,
such as GoogleAnalytics or Segment.
The key idea is that we want to consolidate common interactions
with datastores and systems in a reasonable fashion through custom hooks.
Airflow has a rich and vibrant open-source community,
this community is constantly adding new functionality,
and extending the capabilities of Airflow.
As an Airflow user,
you should always check Airflow contrib before building your own Airflow plug-ins,
to see if what you need already exists.
So before we continue,
I'm actually going to leave the slides here for a moment,
and show you what we have in Airflow contrib.
So in this tab, I'm going to zoom in here.
In this tab, you can see that we're in the Apache Airflow repository.
I'm in the folder Airflow, Airflow contrib.
You'll see a link for this in the classroom.
Within this, we'll see a number of folders,
the two that we're going to focus on right now,
are hooks and operators.
First we're going to look at operators.
So we're looking at here are list of community contributed operators,
that's why it's in the contrib folder.
It's not necessarily considered part of the core of Airflow,
but these are operators custom plug-ins that have been provided by the community.
So I'll allow you to peruse this yourself,
but I'll point out a couple that might be very useful to you.
So if we scroll down,
you can see a number of operators.
Something like Mongo to S3 can be really useful,
if you want to dump records directly out of Mongo to S3.
Likewise, there are a number of S3 operators defined here.
If you just want to list an S3 bucket,
in fact this is something we did in the first lesson.
So if we had used this operator,
you theoretically wouldn't have had to have written any code at all.
Likewise, we have one here for Segment.
On the previous slide, we talked a little bit about using a set custom Segment hook,
you could also write a custom Segment operator,
if you had a specific type of work that you had in mind.
Likewise, if you want to start with Spark,
if you wanted to do something with Spark JDBC, or SQL,
or submit a job to Spark,
you can use these operators and parameterize them
to actually leverage Spark within your Airflow installation.
So if I click into this real quick,
and we scroll down just a little bit,
you can see that,
the documentation here is pretty good.
You can go to the Airflow website to actually see more,
but you can actually see that there are
a number of options that you can provide to this operator.
So now we're back in Airflow, Airflow contrib,
the very top level where we started,
we're going to jump into the hooks folder.
Here, we have a number of hooks,
again community contributed hooks that are incredibly useful.
If you work in Amazon or AWS, Microsoft Azure,
or in Google Cloud Platform,
there are a number of integrated hooks for the systems that those Clouds provide.
You'll also see that we have integrations for tools like Redshift,
Segment, and even Slack.
As an Airflow user, you should always check
Airflow contrib before building your own Airflow plug-ins,
to see if what you need already exists.
Operators and hooks for common data tools,
like Apache Spark and Cassandra,
as well as vendor-specific integrations for Amazon Web Services,
Azure, and Google Cloud Platform,
can be found in Airflow contrib.
If the functionality exists,
and it's not quite what you wanted,
that's a great opportunity to add that functionality through an open source contribution.